Ryan C. McGuiness

ryanmcguiness123@gmail.com│(732) 675-8146│https://rmcguiness.com

Software Engineer with over 4 years of professional experience developing full-stack software solutions, specializing in
front-end technologies. Proven track record of being a reliable teammate and developer, capable of solving problems and
delivering high-quality code.

Experience
Perficient, Inc. (4 years) Allentown, PA
Software Engineer June ‘22 - Present
● Developed and optimized headless e-commerce websites using Next.js and TypeScript. Utilized Next.js’ client
and server components to improve performance, SEO, and UI/UX.
● Spearheaded multiple high-priority items for clients, such as initializing Jest for robust testing, and setting up
Mock Service Workers to simulate API responses. Resulting in improving code coverage by 90% on the entire
codebase.
● Collaborated with management, developers, and quality assurance to create tasks, assign deadlines, and deliver
software solutions on time in accordance with project goals and expectations.
● Leveraged Figma blueprints, translating them into code while adhering to best coding practices for enhanced
readability and performance optimization. Then, styled the pages using clients' preferred styling language, whether
CSS, Tailwind, or Sass.

Associate Software Engineer June ‘21 - June ‘22
● Leveraged PHP, HTML, CSS, JS, and MySQL on the Magento framework to design, build, and deploy
business and customer-facing e-commerce web pages.
● Quickly adapted to new projects by rapidly learning new programming languages and mastering extensive
codebases, enabling me to provide meaningful contributions and solutions promptly.
Lapis Health (4 months) Remote

Software Engineer Intern September ‘20 - December ‘20
● Assisted in building a production-grade React application using Redux, Stripe, Slate.js, and the Material-UI
library.
● Contributed to a RESTful Python backend using Flask with a PostgreSQL database for persistent storage and a
comprehensive test suite.

Skills
Years of Experience:
5+: JavaScript, React.js, HTML, CSS, and Git
3-4: Next.js, TypeScript, Node.js, Python,and PHP
1-2: Java, C/C++, and React-Native

Education
Lehigh University Bethlehem, PA
BA Double Major: Computer Science & Economics January 2018 - May 2021
● Relevant Coursework: CSE-340: Design and Analysis of Algorithms, CSE-262: Programming Languages,
CSE-216: Software Engineering, CSE-109: Systems Software
Udemy Certifications
● MERN Fullstack Guide: MongoDB, Express, React, Node.js
● React- The Complete Guide: React, Hooks, Redux, React Router, Next.js, and Best Practices

Projects
Next.js Playground (next-playground-swart-alpha.vercel.app)
● Designed and developed a Next.js website, connected to Supabase, to practice and test different Nextjs
development strategies. I also use this site to mock portfolios, restaurant pages, and e-commerce pages.
E-commerce Website (mkr-ecommerce.vercel.app)
● Built an e-commerce site with React.js connected to a Sanity database and integrated Stripe to handle online
transactions.